--- 
title:  "Would you buy the Libra Neopet Kin token?"  
tags: []
published: false
---

*This is a lightly edited version of my monthly newsletter. [Sign up here](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/ "ABP")*

**Takeaways**

1. 
2. 
3. Employment can be thought of as a legal way to own another person

**Newsletter admin**

If you subscribed after listening to my cocktail talk, *this newsletter is not about cocktails! \[1\]* Please reach out directly if you were interested in attending my cocktail parties.

**What can operators and investors learn from each other**

With the fall from grace of WeWork, there's been a realisation that companies actually need to make money \[2\]. I've also seen comments about how operators would benefit from basic finance knowledge. This article about what operators can learn from investors, and vice versa, comes from Brent Beshore of the investment firm [adventur.es](https://www.adventur.es/our-investment-approach "adventures"):

*WHAT OPERATORS CAN LEARN FROM INVESTORS*

> Capital efficiency and capital allocation matter

[Growth is not necessarily good and can even be value destructive, depending on your cost of capital and return on it.](https://www.valuewalk.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/Growth-what-is-it-good-for-and-ROIC.pdf "ROIC") The book "The Outsiders" has recently popularised the concept the main role of the CEO being a capital allocator, so you're seeing more focus on this now. For the less financially experienced, this is essentially saying you need to know how much your funding is costing you, what your expected return on your investment is, and how efficiently you are expanding.

> Circle of competence will limit you, but keep you alive

Nobody would assume they can conduct surgery without the proper training, yet everyone and their parents assume they can be above average investors. Perhaps it's due to the [paradox of skill](https://research-doc.credit-suisse.com/docView?language=ENG&format=PDF&source_id=em&document_id=805456950&serialid=LsvBuE4wt3XNGE0V%2B3ec251NK9soTQqcMVQ9q2QuF2I%3D "CS") I don't want to discourage people from learning on their own, but be aware of where your expertise is in and who you are competing against in this new arena. 

*WHAT INVESTORS CAN LEARN FROM OPERATORS*

> All businesses are loosely functioning disasters, and some are profitable despite it

Many investors lack operating experience due to the recruitment funnel of "banking to private equity to hedge fund". Because of this, many model businesses with spreadsheet math and lack the context for why their activist proposal would be incredibly difficult to execute. The better investors acknowledge their knowledge gaps and seek ways to have more empathy for operators. 

> Forecasts and predictions are exercises in guessing and guesses are always wrong

[As Mauboussin and others have discussed before](https://www.leonlinsx.com/mauboussin-interview/ "Mauboussin"), focus on the process rather than the outcome. 

> Outsized returns require divergent thinking and action

Investors like to believe they are bold risk takers, though I doubt this is the case since everyone's incentivised to be with the consensus \[3\]. True contrarians are, by definition, rare. And of that rare group, even fewer are right. 

**How to legally own another person**

[Nassim Taleb discusses the nature of work and organisations](https://medium.com/incerto/how-to-legally-own-another-person-4145a1802bf6 "Taleb") \[30\]

> Why were \[freelance monks\] banned \[by the church\]? They were, simply, totally free. They were financially free, and secure, not because of their means but because of their wants. \[...\] Complete freedom is the last thing you would want if you have an organized religion to run. Total freedom is also a very, very bad thing for you if you have a firm to run
 
Most firms give some amount of freedom to employees. However, they have a level of expectations for what the employees are supposed to do and deliver; they're not paying them to ignore their work and write a newsletter instead \[31\]. Firms want control.

> So employees exist because they have significant skin in the game – and the risk is shared with them, enough risk for it to be a deterrent and a penalty for acts of undependability, such as failing to show up on time. You are buying dependability. 

Taleb gives an anecdote comparing a contractor vs an employee. If you had a contracted pilot for your summer holiday flight, she could cancel on you if she got a better offer. The employee pilot will be more reliable since she's incentivised by her regular paycheck. 

Taleb goes on to talk about "company men" and "companies people", whose identities are intertwined with the places they work for:

> A company man is someone who feels that he has something huge to lose if he doesn’t behave as a company man – that is, he has skin in the game 

> A companies person is someone who feels that he has something huge to lose if he loses his employability

> The employable person is embedded in an industry, with fear of upsetting not just their employer, but other potential employers. An employee is – by design – more valuable inside a firm than outside of it

Many people feel tied to the place they work for and change themselves to fit in with the company culture. The combination of wanting to remain employed at your company and employable generally in the industry incentivises you to dress a certain way, talk a certain jargon, and behave a certain stereotype \[32\]. This works to your advantage when the company or industry is still around, but to your disadvantage when you're laid off or the industry is in decline. 

I've realised that an employee's work generates value mostly for the employer rather than the employee. You're trading future upside for employment and reliable paychecks. This isn't necessarily bad \[33\], but you need to understand that this is the implicit tradeoff you're making. Also keep in mind that you're expendable \[34\]. 

> Slave ownership by companies has traditionally taken very curious forms. The best slave is someone you overpay and who knows it, terrified of losing his status. Multinational companies created the expat category \[...\] Why? Because the further from headquarters an employee is located, the more autonomous his unit, \[hence\] the more you want him to be a slave so he does nothing strange on his own

Taleb explains that in today's increasingly specialised world, a business can shut down when one step in the process is mishandled. This is why things appear to run more smoothly and efficiently than in the past, but errors are costlier \[35\]. Hence, businesses want to buy dependency, thus hiring employees that have a lot to lose should they be unreliable. In his view, the companies essentially legally own their beholden employees. 

Taleb discusses two exceptions to this: 

> One type is the salesperson whose resignation would cause the loss of business, and, what’s worse, he can benefit a competitor by take some of the firm’s client there. 

> The other one was the trader about whom only one thing mattered: the profits and losses, or P/L. Traders who made money, I realized, could get so disruptive that they needed to be kept away from the rest of the employees. That’s the price you pay

If you're an employee judged by a single metric that you have direct control over, you have more independence, and with it more upside and downside. You become closer to an independent contractor within the company rather than an employee. Again, this arrangement works for some and not for others. You can be the most popular person at the firm one year and then fired the next. 

The alternative to employment is to start your own business, like what Lindsay Burton did with [Kayo conference series](https://kayoconferenceseries.com/who-we-are/ "Kayo") (an awesome series btw). Being a fully independent contractor exposes you to the full upside but also downside. Many people like the idea of independence but don't want to deal with the actual frustrating trivialties involved. 

> People whose survival depends on qualitative “job assessments” by someone of higher rank in an organization cannot be trusted for critical decisions.

> So although an employee is here to prevent an emergency, should there be a change of plan in anything, the employee is stuck. While this paralysis can stem because of the distribution of responsibilities causes a serious dilution, there is another problem of scale

I've found that many decisions made within an organisation are to either cover someone's ass or to support an individual's agenda, rather than what may be good for the company as a whole. This makes sense given the incentive structure we've discussed above. Employees are not encouraged to take risk, and the companies that do so are the exception \[36\].

**Footnotes**
1. [Gaz Regan has a cocktail newsletter if you're interested](http://www.gazregan.com/ "Gaz")
2. Ok, so this wasn't an entirely fair critique. If you're incentivised to grow orders and are valued on a multiple of revenue, the logical thing to do would be to sell 1 dollar for 10 cents and book as much revenue for as long as possible. I'm not saying it's sustainable or smart, but it's rational why so many companies have grown this way. 
3. People would rather be with the consensus and wrong rather than against the consensus and wrong. [For more details see this article by Tren Griffin](https://25iq.com/2016/10/28/why-investors-must-be-contrarians-to-outperform-the-market/ "Contrarian")
30. Sent in by friend and reader Tian
31. No, I do not do this. Really.
32. The realisation that you can do the same amount of work in a T shirt and jeans vs a suit must have been revolutionary. In some ways though, it was! Cultural change takes time.
33. I'm less critical than Taleb here of employment. Everyone has their circumstances on why they're doing what they do. Hey I need to pay rent too.
34. Applies even to founders and majority control shareholders in a business, as seen by Uber and WeWork. The survival of the company (and investor money) is the priority above all.
35. For more detail, see the O-ring theory of development in the "Other links" section
36. Two notable exceptions are [Stripe's "What is the most ambitious version of this idea"](https://markmcgranaghan.com/lessons-from-stripe "Stripe") and [Amazon's "Disagree and commit"](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312517120198/d373368dex991.htm "Amazon") philosophies. Many companies *claim* they encourage risk taking but actually don't want the associated volatility. 

**Shout outs**
1. I met with Amy Pryke of [Native Noodles], which is bringing good Singaporean food to NYC. Yes I'm obviously biased here but check them out if you're interested! 
2. If you're an underrepresented group in tech and looking to recruit, [Ben Jackson of For The Win] would like to help. Let me know and I can reach out.

**Other**
1. [The O-ring theory of development describes how small changes in quality cause big changes in wages, when economies are organized such that one weak link can destroy the entire value of production](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CKkOmIW9bjg "O-ring")
2. [Is there a platonic ideal in mixing drinks?](https://www.thedailybeast.com/plato-and-aristotle-walk-into-a-bar-a-meditation-on-the-daiquiri?ref=wrap "wondrich")
3. [Students learn more in active learning classes but dislike it and think they learn less due to the increased effort required.](https://www.pnas.org/content/116/39/19251 "active learning") Originally via [Marginal Revolution](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2019/09/active-learning-works-but-students-dont-like-it.html "MR")
4. [Women remain unmarried because they lack partners with comparable socioeconomic status rather than just because of a sex ratio imbalance](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/jomf.12603 "marriage")
5. [Human corpses keep moving after death](https://www.newsweek.com/human-corpse-year-burial-scientist-1459113 "corpse")
