---
title:  "test"
tags: [psychology]
published: false
---


https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0963721417712760

Although cognitive ability correlates with domain specific skills—for example, smarter people are more likely to be stronger chess players and better musicians—there is little evidence that chess or music instruction makes people smarter. Rather, smarter individuals are more likely to engage and excel in these fields. Caveat that I'm not sure if I'm correctly understanding the main stats table in the paper so read for yourself

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/spc3.12434

> Jung likely was trying to figure out the truth behind human psychology, but he was not doing so by creating rigorous theories that could be tested and revised with new knowledge. Indeed, he considered the unscientific nature of his theories to be a strength

> The central premises of the MBTI theory include that people belong to a “true” personality “type”, that “type” causes differences in observed behavior, and that “type” is determined at birth. For the MBTI theory to be correct, each of these three claims needs to be supported. However, each has several validity issues. 

> to the extent that “thinking” (T) and “feeling” (F) are not actually opposites, it does not make sense to say that people are born with a preference for one or the other, since the “or” is no longer meaningful.

> Sensing and perceiving patterns are such pervasive and nonconscious processes (e.g., Schneider & Chein, 2003) that is most assuredly the case that both bottom‐up processing and top‐down processing are unavoidable. \[...\] These are all basic features of perception and occur automatically, making the idea that people tend to “prefer” one over the other difficult to reconcile.

> One problem for the MBTI theory's internal consistency is that it asks those that take it to self‐verify the results. \[...\] This is an internal consistency problem because it cannot be the case that “true” personality is both hidden and not. This is, though, easy to justify from a customer service perspective: Assessment takers are simply happier when they have control over the output of the process

> The MBTI theory purports to measure preferences for each of the dichotomies, rather than tendencies or abilities. \[...\] This freedom
makes sense from a customer service perspective but not a scientific one.

Big Five seems to replicate better https://mobile.twitter.com/cjsotomatic/status/1091378831057932289
