---
title:  "2019 Punch Card Conference notes"  
tags: [investing, finance]
published: false
---

*If you liked this, you'll like my monthly* ***[finance and tech newsletter](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/ "ABP")***

I was lucky enough to get invited by a friend to the [2019 Punch Card Conference]https://projectpunchcard.com/project-punch-card-investment-conference-2019/ "punch card"), the annual event for Project Punch Card, "a nonprofit that supports underrepresented groups in the investment field and a long-term investment orientation". Below are my notes from the event, with some occasional commentary of my own.

**[Rupal J. Bhansali, Ariel Investments](https://www.arielinvestments.com/content/view/2232/2038/ "Rupal")**
contrarian thinking
accept high returns, high risk or settle low returns low risk
i refuse to accept that
if correct view already in price, no payoff. but big payoff for upset victories, big penalties for wrong answers
the very thing that causes you to lose money is also thing that can cause you to make money if diagnosed correctly
biggest thing is understanding the quality of what you're getting into, and be against consensus
walked through how a tire company could be non-consensus. michelin 2x auto sector because mission critical component, need to replace regularly, manufacturing advantage
a portfolio mgr that over the LT would have beat the mkt, could have underperformed for long periods of time
walked through non-cons view that apple could be low quality - consumer electronics, same user experience as others, multiple threats, eroding advantage, stopped reporting unit sales, investment in content. Could it be the next blackberry? 
myth that corp governance is superior in US. we've seen some of worst corp gov in US e.g. stock buybacks enriching mgmt, expensive M&A

eileen, bridgewater
looked at oppty for diversity and inclusion, wasnt proud that she was only woman at events
finding sponsors vs mentors, there's a diff. sponsor is are you right person for job, sponsorship was more of path with me
i've also mentored others but since i'm not in their company i cant help them
bigger thing is to know who to get help from rather than having to know everything
understand what you want to do and not do, can you imagine yourself being in a role, what you're good at. but all of that is hard to know 
call it out when you see ppl being excluded. not just diversity but also inclusion
dots system at bridgewater to evaluate ppl, invented by dalio, continuously evolving,
get ppl better at strengths or weaknesses? i first ask what is it you want to do, what do you need to evolve to do that, 
bridgewater does lose large proportion of ppl in first few mths, doesnt skew any group. more snr ppl attrite higher. when they get radical feedback they're not accustomed to it, 70% of the ppl that leave. 
what i worry abt is ppl inherently introverted and giving them space to speak
how do you assess fit? look at mgmt team, meet w/ ppl in the co, could i see myself working w/ that person for 18hrs, 
getting the support from mentor early on, what i did right, wrong
some of it was luck, some of it was being prepared for meetings, 
i do think womens investing clubs create an advantage but i wouldnt be apologetic about that. all groups have that e.g. ivy league easier. up to you to create your own advantage. 

pat dorsey, dorsey asset mgmt
680mm aum, 10-15 positions, currently 11, 60% capital in top 5, no expert networks, self source all
launched w 6mm in capital and no track record
moats created by - pricing power, created via intangible assets, switching costs, network effects, cost adv
moats matter because increase biz value by lengthening period where capital can be reinvested at high ROIC
income paid out to investor must be reinvested in competitive equity mkt. divd as a 'unilaterally imposed tax event'
some expenses on the I/S can be investments, low current margins <> bad biz 
Opinion of divd varies among countries e.g issuing a divd no longer growth co in US but liked in europe
large scale M&A usually fails. has to be part of corporate strat e.g. danaher, constellation
you cant screen for switching costs in bloomberg, must talk to custoemrs
cant assume reinvestment is npv positive, have to understand long run economics
quantitative data is priced efficiently. qualitative insight is less efficiently priced, ppl dont go out to talk. same expert network everyone talks to
used to think moat more impt than mgmt, might not agree now. mgmt strategic choices have high influence and impact on how biz gets built

panel
have morning meeting w/ idea pitches, everyone in firm sits in
want to make sure everyone gets chance to answer qns
not just reviewed on work youve done but participation in invst process
there's huge dislocation risk in emerging mkt credit. Not saying dont take the risk but be aware of it and how much risk willing to take
"sourcing is magic", particularly in private stuff
a common theme in our mistakes is when we didnt get the control we though we had in buying over secured, senior debt e.g company with a union

barbara ann bernard, wincrest capital
drivers for historical returns in US not repeatable
e.g. look at diff in p/e, div yields, treasury yields, share buybacks
america doesnt have a housing crisis like in 08 but we have a debt crisis. corp debt as % of gdp and amt that is rated BBB
shorts as source of profit not just a hedge
what sectors vulnerable? either shorting cos that are in vulnerable sector, or find some themes e.g. media shorts, eyeballs going away. vulnerable to industry trend but also in downturn, high leverage 
my short book has low p/e, high div yield, look like screaming longs but theyre not
not they dont see change coming but in denial, dont think will happen to them  
shorted CONN (Conn's) retailer
'private co approach to the public mkts'
80% of cos CEO still largest shareholder
net cash, impeccable b/s
willing to wait
i can get twice the growth for half the multiple outside the US
e.g. india shoe ownership 1.6 pairs per person, likely 
relaxa footwear, 20% mkt cap in cash, single digit mkt share, 
africa helios towers 10x ebitda. tenacy 2,  
towers high operating leverage, towers can put many receiver boxes, can take on debt. 24x ebitda for crown castle. i owned european sumnex because underearning, could increase tenacy
emerging managers are struggling, need to fill the funnel. not that women arent trying but arent gettign to scale. if you're <250mm assets you have <50% chance of surviving
is there a way to bring down min viable aum? need to make it sustainable for manager
need cognitive diversity 
what's the hidden obstacle on why this pooling of managers at subscale hasnt happened yet?
idea of a platform isn't novel, works in all sorts of industries, but everyone says it's really hard
need at least 500-1bn to accel 5+ strategies. it would be largest investment in diversity in industry. it's just getting commitment of aum. can you do 5 endowments at 200mm? sure, but then youd need to get all of them to agree

Asness
a lot of what im presenting hasnt worked in last 2 years
equity and bond real yields are low, but not unprecedented. 
takinga 60/40 portfolio, the expected real return of both is very low. since historically both dont get expensive at same time, but now both are
cant use the 5% going forward. i think should use the 2% going forward
to be an interesting factor, needs have some economic sense, can be used to sort managers
ppl are very good at making a story after seeing the data
some factors that most ppl have settled on include: value, momentum, carry, defensive, trend, volatility
over the years i've come to think we're more similar to others than i believed in the past
value has suffered the last 5+ years
there is an increasing gulf (value spread) between the cheap and expensive now 
every strategy is hard to stick with
ren runs on hft signals that dont nec make sense. we hold for 3mths+, would be hard pressed to do that w/o some economic explanation

Michael Weinberg, APG
pension fund allocator / administrator for netherlands
we think biz should be held to high standard, care about environment and world
care about integrity of mkts, shoudl be fair,
when i was at soros, he'd recommend putting your for profit and non profit funds treat them separately
Absolutely seeing more ppl in ESG
we track how much companies are contributing to SDI goals and see how that changes over time 
preference is to engage w/ companies and help them improve
how are managers today diff from past? the mgrs we believe will have an edge will be using ML or alternative data. in past they went out in physical world and collect data, now we think they'll do same thing but w/ ML. Co can look at more securities. need to work on inefficient markets e.g. asia europe, or smaller mkt cap, where ML can't do faster and cheaper
future hires would be data sci, programmers, 

James Dinan, York Capital
internet democratised everything, including information flow
ppl used to be able to literally get the news a day before, cant do that now
what do i need to know, who knows that, and of that who can tell me about it?
go where your passions are
things that we do today are things machines cant do e.g. troubled loans, real estate in europe. we dont want to compete w/ alpha busters
we were in biz 8 years before even hiring a marketing person. in long run that worked, but have to be patient
have merger arb spreads been commoditized? yes, playing vanilla merger arb prob only makes sense for large firms
mastercard, visa still making money from their monopoly. if we go to a digital world, why should you as a merchant give 2% to these guys. what's going to happen when merchants dont take mastercard and visa? crypto to move money for free
anyone making a lot of money, prob dozens of ppl trying to figure out how to get that lunch
also think of disruption from a regulatory standpoint e.g. anger in CA at PGE

Mauboussin
how big should a team be
how to asemble it
change from single to multi managers
3 and 5 members works better since can tiebreak
ideal team size 4-6
cognitive diversity as key to prob solving (info, knowledge, heuristics, representations, mental models, personality)
Scott Page, the diversity bonus, diversity prediction theorem. collective error = avg indiv error - prediction diversity
analysts who know most about situation have most to unlearn when world changes
https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/psychology-of-intelligence-analysis/PsychofIntelNew.pdf
are you willing to ask the naive question or are you encumbered by your knowledge
number 1 prob in orgs is ppl feel scared to voice their opinion, esp when seniority comes in play
physical stressor induces same stress response as psychological stressor
when youre stressed you pull in your time horizon. if i stress you you stop thinking LT
good leaders
keep to agenda
dont share view until end, if at all
elicit views

*If you liked this, sign up for my monthly* ***[finance and tech newsletter](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/ "ABP")***
