---
title:  "Substack review"
tags: [newsletter, tech]
published: false
---

*\*Disclaimer: I was introduced to Substack by an employee there, who suggested I try the service. Also, I signed up for this in April 2019, so some commentary below might be dated\**

I've [previously described](https://www.leonlinsx.com/why-i-write/ "why write") my reasons for starting a public blog. In addition to this website, I also recently signed up for Substack to publish my [monthly newsletters](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/ "substack"). Before Substack, I'd been emailing my distribution list directly. I moved to Substack for the following benefits:

1. Easier way of managing the email list rather than copying and pasting emails every time, or forgetting to include someone

    > You can build a mailing list through Substack and take it with you at any time. If you already have a mailing list, you can import it via settings with the click of a button.
    
![Email{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-import-email-list.PNG)

2. Easier way for uninterested readers to unsubscribe and less awkwardness compared to emailing me directly \[1\]

![Email{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-unsubscribe.PNG)

Though I'd personally prefer if the text was a bit more obvious rather than slightly hidden.

3. More professional looking newsletter, with easier inclusion of rich media content

    > It’s easy to embed YouTube and Vimeo videos, Spotify tracks, and tweets into your posts. Just copy-and-paste the relevant URLs and the embeds will appear like magic. You can also drag-and-drop images and gifs.
    
![Adding images is simple{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-media.gif)

4. Analytics of my reader base, such as click rates

![Analytics{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-analytics.PNG)

5. Potential for greater outreach and perhaps monetisation eventually \[2\], all managed via the platform

    > Once you’ve connected a Stripe account to Substack, we manage your payments reliably and securely.

Other things that I like include:

1. Customer support so that you don't have to deal with admin yourself

    > If people encounter problems with their credit cards or logins – or whatever else comes up – we solve the problems on your behalf via support@substack.com.    
    
2. The 'About' and 'Thank you for subscribing' pages on Substack come prepopulated with content that I could tweak in order to quickly setup the service, rather than blank forms that would require me to create even more content from scratch

3. If you're into that kinda thing, there's also leaderboards that can help promote the most popular content, which could lead to a virtuous cycle if you're able to get up in the rankings. Substack claims that it helps discovery, though I have a suggestion on this further down in this post

    > The leaderboards help readers discover great publications, and they help publishers find new readers.

![Leaderboard{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-leaderboard.png)

4. There are also short profiles of the top publishers (but I don't know how to get these if you're not among that list)

![Profiles{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-profiles.PNG)

5. And the welcome page to your newsletter nudges the reader to subscribe, but doesn't force the issue, which makes sense to me. I'd not want to subscribe for something without having read a sample first.

![Welcome{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-sub-sign-up-screen.PNG)

6. After you've signed up as a publisher, the founder also offers his contact info in case you can't get your questions answered in the FAQ

![Founder{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/substack/substack-founder-email.PNG)

7. There's also a group subscription feature

    > If you think that organizations, companies, or other institutions might want to buy multiple subscriptions for their members, you can sell group subscriptions.

**Footnotes**
1. That said, my only unsubscribe so far has come from a friend telling me he wanted to unsubscribe before doing so, so I'm not sure if this is working as intended...
2. This is one of those quotes that will age badly regardless of whether I succeed or fail
