---
title:  "LVMH"  
tags: [fashion, innovation, brands, creativity]
published: false
---

**Takeaway**

<style>
      .iframe-container {
        overflow: hidden;        
        padding-top: 50%; <!-- Calculated from the aspect ration of the content (in case of 16:9 it is 9/16= 0.5625) -->
        position: relative;
      }
      .iframe-container iframe { 
         border: 0;
         height: 100%; <!-- Finally, width and height are set to 100% so the iframe takes up 100% of the containers space. -->
         left: 0;
         position: absolute;
         top: 0;
         width: 100%;
         display: block;
         margin: 0 auto; <!-- center image -->
      }
      <!-- 4x3 Aspect Ratio -->
      .iframe-container-4x3 {
        padding-top: 75%;
      }
</style> 

<div class="iframe-container-4x3">
  <p align="center"><iframe src="https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/embed" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"> </iframe></p>
</div>

**Main**

> Artists must be completely unfettered by financial and commercial concerns, he insists, to do their best work.

> If you think and act like a typical manager around creative people—with rules, policies, data on customer preferences, and so forth—you will quickly kill their talent. Our whole business is based on giving our artists and designers complete freedom to invent without limits.

> The company listens to focus groups with “one ear,” for instance, and only hires managers so respectful of the creative process that they will endure its necessary chaos. Yet when it comes to getting its creativity onto shelves, chaos is banished. The company imposes strict discipline on its manufacturing processes, 

> The important point is, you cannot compromise creativity at its birth. The dresses had to start in newspaper. We did not begin the creative process by talking about the bottom line.

> Some companies are very marketing driven; they follow the consumer. And they succeed with that strategy. They go out, they test what people want, and then they make it. But that approach has nothing to do with innovation, which is the ultimate driver, we believe, of growth and profitability. You can’t charge a premium price for giving people what they expect, and you won’t ever have break-out products that way—the kinds of products that people line up around the block for. We have those, but only because we give our artists freedom.

> we won’t launch a product if the tests clearly show it is going to be a failure, but we won’t use tests to modify products, either.

> The LVMH process has one goal: star brands. According to Arnault, star brands are born only when a company manages to make products that “speak to the ages” but feel intensely modern. Such products sell fast and furiously, all while raking in profits. 

> The most successful creative people—and you would have to say that John Galliano is one of these—want to see their creations in the street. They don’t invent just to invent. Yes, they come up with many exciting ideas, and many of these ideas shock; they look crazy at first, completely crazy. But the true artists that make LVMH a success, they don’t want the process to end there. They want people to wear their dresses, or spray their perfume, or carry the luggage they have designed.

> Well, we don’t like failures. We try to avoid them. That is why, with many of our new products, we make a limited number. We do not put the entire company at risk by introducing all new products all the time. In any given year, in fact, only 15% of our business comes from the new; the rest comes from traditional, proven products—the classics.

> at the beginning, we thought, “Okay, we have a genius here with Christian Lacroix,” but we learned that genius is not enough to succeed. It was something of a shock, to be honest, to discover that even great talent could not launch a brand from zero. A brand must have a heritage; there are no shortcuts.

> So is heritage the main characteristic of a star brand? I would say that there are four characteristics required. A star brand is timeless, modern, fast growing, and highly profitable.

> The problem is that the quality of timelessness takes years to develop, even decades. 

> A lot of companies talk about quality, but if you want your brand to be timeless, you have to be a fanatic about it.

> Quality also comes from hiring very dedicated people and then keeping them for a long time. We try to keep the people at the brands, especially the artisans—the seam-stresses and other people who make the products—because they have the brand in their bones—its history, its meaning. At the stores, too, many of the salespeople have the brand in their bones. Most companies clean house when they acquire a new brand. We don’t do that because we have found it hurts quality terribly. When you clean house, you usher out the people who respect the brand the most and who contribute to its longevity—its timelessness, its authenticity.

> Fashion, of course, comes from innovation—the creativity of the designers. That is sometimes harder to guarantee than quality, which you can actually build in to a product, but just as important. The hard truth is, you must be old and new at once. In a star brand you honor your past and invent your future at the same time.

> growth is not just a function of high price. You also grow when you move into new markets, such as those in developing countries. But mainly, growth is a function of high desire. Customers must want the product.

> The last thing you should do is assign advertising to your marketing department. If you do that, you lose the proximity between the designers and the message to the marketplace. At LVMH, we keep the advertising right inside the design team.

> High profitability comes at the back end of the process, and behind the scenes. It comes in the atelier—the factory. Our products have unbelievably high quality; they have to. But their production is organized in such a way that we also have unbelievably high productivity. 

> Many brands have the potential to be stars, but they are poorly managed. That’s too bad for them. But there are more brands that are as well managed as can be, and they will never be stars. They will never be successful the world over. They don’t have that something—that magic that you really can’t explain.

*If you liked this, sign up for my * ***[finance and tech newsletter:](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/ "ABP")***

<div class="iframe-container-4x3">
  <p align="center"><iframe src="https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/embed" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"> </iframe></p>
</div>
