---
title:  "Would you buy the Libra Neopet Kin token?"  
tags: []
published: false
---


**Takeaways**

<style>
      .iframe-container {
        overflow: hidden;        
        padding-top: 50%; <!-- Calculated from the aspect ration of the content (in case of 16:9 it is 9/16= 0.5625) -->
        position: relative;
      }
      .iframe-container iframe { 
         border: 0;
         height: 100%; <!-- Finally, width and height are set to 100% so the iframe takes up 100% of the containers space. -->
         left: 0;
         position: absolute;
         top: 0;
         width: 100%;
         display: block;
         margin: 0 auto; <!-- center image -->
      }
      <!-- 4x3 Aspect Ratio -->
      .iframe-container-4x3 {
        padding-top: 75%;
      }
</style> 

<div class="iframe-container-4x3">
  <p align="center"><iframe src="https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/embed" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"> </iframe></p>
</div>


**AI as a services business**

I've written about machine learning and AI before \[1\], [summarising Vicki Boykis' work on how you often don't need fancy tech, and usually the business dictates, not the tech](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/p/you-dont-want-quality-time-you-want "ABP")

**The practice of value investing by Li Lu**

Warren Buffett's partner, Charlie Munger, has given money to an outsider to run [only once in his life.](https://qz.com/work/1551328/the-only-person-besides-warren-buffett-who-charlie-munger-trusts-with-his-money/ "Munger") That outsider is [Li Lu of Himalaya Capital.](http://himalayacapital.com/ "Himalaya") 

Founded in 1998, Himalaya is a value investing firm, focused on companies in Asia with an emphasis on China. Typical of that investment style, they look to be long-term owners of quality companies that compound over time \[21\]. T[hey've historically taken a 0% management fee, and 25% carry after a 6% return hurdle.](https://www8.gsb.columbia.edu/valueinvesting/sites/valueinvesting/files/files/Graham%20%26%20Doddsville%20-%20Issue%2018%20-%20Spring%202013_0.pdf "Graham") This is unusual in the investment industry, and demonstrates how confident they are in generating annual returns \[22\].

Since Li Lu is China focused, there are fewer interviews of him than popular investors. Graham of Longriver recently [translated a speech that highlights Li Lu's investment philosophy,](https://www.longriverinv.com/blog/the-practice-of-value-investing-by-li-lu "Longriver") and I'll be highlighting portions below \[23\]. 

**Basic concepts**

He starts with his four core concepts of value investing:

> 1. Stocks confer part-ownership of a business.

He makes two points here. Firstly, that the ability to exchange ownership rights freely gives an indication of how society views the protection of private property rights \[24\]. Secondly, that investment should be viewed as ownership, distinct from speculation. This point of view is typically held by value investors, and he'll elaborate at length later. 

> 2. The market is a guide.

He discusses [the popular anecdote of Mr Market,](https://fs.blog/2013/11/mr-market/ "Market") which highlights how the stock market can be viewed as something that shouts a price at you daily. It's up to you to make a decision on when to buy and sell, and you're better off ignoring the market price most of the time.

This is much harder to do in practice. It's one thing to say you're a disciplined person that just puts their money in index funds. It's another to resist buying options in your robinhood account when you hear your friends made $10k in one day by lurking on r/wallstreetbets. 

> 3. The most important thing in investing is predicting the future but the future is inherently unpredictable.  Investing is therefore about probability and a margin of safety.

Investing being about probability is a concept most professionals would agree with, regardless of style. Even the best investors have a hit rate in the 50-60% range, meaning they are wrong a lot. Rather than going in 100% on a single name, they think in terms of investing in a portfolio of names, sizing each position accordingly based on what they think the odds of success for each company is. 

The margin of safety one is more controversial, and more typical of value investors. This is the idea that for every investment you make, you should do so at a price that still gives you enough buffer should there be unexpected declines.

> 4. Build a circle of competence and stick within it.

Popularised by Buffett, this is the idea that you should deeply understand an industry or issue, and stick within that. Since investing outperformance is about a [relative, not absolute edge,](https://research-doc.credit-suisse.com/docView?language=ENG&format=PDF&source_id=em&document_id=805456950&serialid=LsvBuE4wt3XNGE0V%2B3ec251NK9soTQqcMVQ9q2QuF2I%3D "Mauboussin") overextending yourself into an area you don't know as well as others is likely to be dangerous. He discuses this in detail later as well.

**Investing vs speculation**

Li Lu talks about how the stock market was successful due to catering to the human need of gambling, and how it changed from just gambling on the future of the company, but the future of how others viewed the company:

> no longer were people trying to guess the future results of the East India Company; they were simply trying to guess the behaviour of other people buying and selling the stock.  

This is similar to the [Keynesian beauty contest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keynesian_beauty_contest "contest") concept. It's also where value investors will differ from many other professionals. In a typical long/short fund, you'd be more interested in knowing what market consensus is, and whether there were any catalysts that would change sentiment to converge to your thesis. Value investing is based more on how the fundamental performance of the company will be.

> This is the biggest difference between investing and speculating: in the end, the net result of all speculation is zero. Of course, there will be some people who win for a bit longer; and some \[who are taken for suckers\] without any chance to strike it rich. But with enough time, all speculation ends in a zero-sum result. Therefore, due to their focus on short term behaviour, speculators have absolutely no influence on economic growth or a company’s profits.

I'm less definite than Li Lu on this, and do believe speculators can influence company behaviour, whether it be through activist investing or more regular investor conference meetings. This doesn't take away from his general point though, that speculating is zero-sum. When you outperform on a company due to issues unrelated to company growth, someone else on the other side of that trade has underperformed.

**Circle of competence**

Li Lu tells a long story about how he got started in investing, which was due to a lunch he attended where Buffett was speaking \[25\]. He started reading more of Buffett's writing, researching companies, and visiting them on site when he could, even when all he could do was talk to security. In doing so, he discovered four lessons in developing a circle of competence:

> The first lesson was that stocks represent partial ownership in a business

> The second point is that when you start looking at things from an owners’ point of view, your understanding of business will be completely different

> When analysts join our company, the first thing we do is to send them to study some companies. We ask them to assume an uncle they’ve never met before has passed away and left them the business. What should they do? They suddenly inherit this asset but have no idea what it is. You must call a board meeting and participate in the discussion. This is the mental model we ask them to use when they conduct their research.  

He separates these two points, but I feel they're similar enough to be discussed together. Regardless of what your stake is in the company, Li Lu is saying that you should view yourself as a full owner. That mindset will motivate you to continue wanting to know as much about the company as possible, and understand what decisions are good vs bad for the company's future.

> The third point is that knowledge is indeed cumulative but you must always maintain intellectual honesty

I've discussed [being open-minded and intellectually honest before,](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/p/improving-forecasts-and-incentivising "intellectual") and would again agree that this is important but hard to do. When's the last time you've changed your mind on a non-trivial issue? 

> The last thing is that you should let your passion be your guide. Don’t listen to what others think of you. They have nothing to do with you. Accept that your circle of competence will be small and don’t worry about everything else. Making money doesn’t depend on how much you know; it depends on whether what you know is right or wrong. If what you know is right, you will not lose money.

Again, this is a contrast to how many other investment funds work in practice, where they usually want investment analysts to increase their coverage of names and industry sectors over time. It's hard to tell the limited partners of your fund (the ones that give you their capital for you to invest) that you're in the same investments you were in the previous quarter; keep that up long enough and they'll wonder why they're paying you to do nothing. Hence, for many funds there's an incentive to actively trade in and out of names, and the larger the set of names you know the better.

**Concluding thoughts**

> this profession doesn’t demand you to be especially smart, nor to have a high IQ or the best academic credentials

Li Lu describes attributes that make a successful investor, which are:

1. The person must be independent, and not care about other's evaluations

2. The person must be objective, and willing to learn always

3. The person must have both extreme patience and extreme decisiveness when great opportunities come along

4. The person must be interested in how businesses work

Keeping in mind the core concepts of value investing above, these investor traits make sense. For a typical long/short fund, they'd be less concerned about (3). A typical quant fund would likely be less concerned about (4). 

> The biggest taboo for investors is to be like Newton and be seduced by the market: to buy at the market’s hottest peak and to sell at its most depressed. If you don’t participate in speculation and stick strictly to investing in what you understand, then you won’t lose money. 

> With compound interest and the right approach, your wealth will grow gradually and in time become quite sizeable.

> The best and most important thing is to have a long enough time over which to compound.  Our suggestion to the average person is to only do things you understand and to stay away from everything else.

Given his background as a long term value investor, it's not a surprise that he advocates for growing wealth slowly via compounding over a long term. 

Value investing is one way of making money, and there are many other ways that have been successful for various lengths of time. [Renaisssance seems to print money,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Renaissance_Technologies "Ren") for example, and they do nothing remotely related to the value investing discussed above. If you do decide to stick with value investing, Li Lu's lessons above will be helpful, with the key takeaway being to think like an owner.

**Other**

1. [A tale of two talebs.](https://medium.com/@allenfarrington/a-tale-of-two-talebs-1775dff3302b "Taleb") Highly recommend, whether you love or hate Nassim Taleb. 
2. "it is lower-income households that will suffer most from Covid-19, and because they tend to spend most of their income, the hit to their incomes will reduce the consumption share of GDP," [Michael Pettis twitter thread on how imbalances in the economy will be resolved.](https://twitter.com/michaelxpettis/status/1253217553083707393 "Pettis") 
3. ["While Microsoft made $100M it shrunk the \[encyclopedia\] market by over $600M. For every dollar of revenue Microsoft made, it took away six dollars of revenue from their competitors."](https://redeye.firstround.com/2006/04/shrink_a_market.html "MSFT") h/t [Brett Bivens](https://venturedesktop.substack.com/ "Brett")
4. "Long Bets was founded in 02002 as a way of fostering more accountable predictions about the future." This is the same group that administered the Warren Buffett vs Hedge Fund bet. [This post looks at predictions for 2020](https://medium.com/the-long-now-foundation/our-long-bets-and-predictions-about-02020-736cf08efcd6 "2020")
5. ["Can the teardrops that fall after reading bad science writing generate renewable electricity? Yes, they can."](https://eighteenthelephant.com/2020/02/12/can-the-teardrops-that-fall-after-reading-bad-science-writing-generate-renewable-electricity-yes-they-can/ "teardrops")

p.s. My goal is to help you, well, avoid boring people. 

The more I know about what you read and want, the easier I can help you do that. 

**If you reply to this email with what you’re reading and what you want more of, two things will happen:**

1. I’ll reply with something you might find interesting. And yes, I always reply. [Call me out if I don't.](https://twitter.com/Leonlinsx "Twitter")

2. I’ll be able to keep the newsletter relevant for all of you

Looking forward to hearing back!

**Footnotes**

1.
21. "We embrace the value investment principles of Benjamin Graham, Warren Buffett, and Charles Munger, and today primarily focus on publicly traded companies in Asia, with an emphasis on China.  We aim to achieve superior returns by being long-term owners of high quality companies with substantial “economic moat”, great growth potential, and run by trust-worthy people.  Some of our holdings date back to our inception twenty years ago."
22. Most investment firms take a management fee on assets invested with them, and then a performance fee on returns from the assets. A typical fee structure is "2 and 20", meaning a 2% management fee and a 20% performance fee. If you put in $1000 and it grew to $1200, assuming the management fee is taken off ending period values, the management fee would be $24 (2% * $1200) and the performance fee $40 (20% * ($1200 - $1000)). Compare this to Li Lu's fee model which only takes performance fees after the first 6% of returns. Here there would be no management fee, and the performance fee would be $47 (25% * ($1200 - $1000 - (6% * $200))). It's an open secret that many investment firms live off the fixed management fees from growing their assets under managment rather than performance. Li Lu's model would be more beneficial for him if he believed he could generate high returns, and less beneficial if he does poorly.
23. I believe it's the same speech [previously translated on gurufocus,](https://www.gurufocus.com/news/997607/notes-from-li-lus-latest-speech-at-peking-university "guru") and Graham's version seems more comprehensive. I've (very) briefly checked the translation and it seems accurate, but I can't fully guarantee the piece obviously. The original is [here](https://xueqiu.com/6026781624/137223946 "original")
24. Somewhat strange considering he mainly invests in China.
25. "In the past, my understanding of the stock market was basically that it was full of bad guys.  But Mr. Free Lunch wasn’t like them at all.  He was very smart and what he said was clever and insightful.  I could understand his principles as soon as I heard them.  And I felt like what he was doing was something I could do too."

*If you liked this, you'll like* ***[my monthly newsletter.](https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/ "ABP")*** *Sign up here:*

<div class="iframe-container-4x3">
  <p align="center"><iframe src="https://avoidboringpeople.substack.com/embed" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"> </iframe></p>
</div>
